Your first assignment is to use GitHub to submit some autobiographical information about yourself.  Answer the following questions.  Use GitHub to submit the resulting text file.
1. What is your name?
	
Dan Markham 

2. Why are you interested in Data Science?

As I have progressed through my professional, academic, and personal life it has become clear that data can be used in tremendously powerful ways to solve the complex issues of not only society, but those of groups and individuals as well. Indeed, I find it fascinating that the correct interpretation and analysis of data can and have been leading to solutions in disease, poverty, and even individual goals such as losing weight. It is my dream to be able to solve interesting and progressive problems on a daily basis. 

On a more personal level, my choice to pursue a degree in Data Science started in my first graduate program in Public Administration where I was intitially exposed to using the scientific method to tackle complex problems. Learning Data Science appealed to me greatly as it would give me the necessary toolset to contribute data-driven solutions to real-world problems. In sum, I am really looking forward the class and the program. 


3. Tell us a little bit about your programming experience.  What programming courses have you taken?  Do you use programming on the job, and if so, how?

I currently work as a Business Data Analyst for a foreign language publishing firm located in Boston called Vista Higher Learning. In this role I am responsible for the business applications and integrations between said applications. On a daily basis, I use SQL Server, MySQL, and Python quite intensively. My strongest language is most certainly SQL, but I am hoping to add a few Python and R skills to my repertoire after this course. And for fun, I try to pick up new languages on Treehouse and am in the midst of trying, not necesarily succeeding, in developing a personal website using Flask and Bootstrap. 

4.  Tell us a little bit about your statistics experience.  What statistics courses have you taken?  Do you use statistics on the job, and if so, how?

I took several statistics courses in my graduate degree in Public Administration. For my capstone thesis, I analyzed quantitative and qualitative survey data in an effort to benchmark and improve the effectiveness of a summer youth program for a local Boston nonprofit. I mostly used SPSS for the analysis so I am looking forward to using R for the first time. 

In my current role as a Business Data Analyst, I mostly rely on descriptive statistics to help our staff make informed business decisions. It is my goal after this class to use inferential statistics to provide more complex and nuanced analysis based on our company's data. 

5.  Do you have other experience with R or Python?

As of right now, I have very limited experience with R. However, I am hoping that my experience with Python will help to make the learning curve with R a little less steep. Professionally, I use Python daily as the "glue" to send data from our various API's and systems into SQL Server and MySQL. On a personal level, I have thrown my lot in with Python 3 as I am using it in developing my own dynamic front-end website. 

6.  What do you hope to learn in this class?

As I alluded earlier, most of my Python experience is more practical in nature. Thus, I am really looking forward to utilizing both Python and R in a more inferential way to analyze data. 

7.  Is there anything else you would like to share with us?

As I am from upstate New York and live in Boston, I have actually never been to Wisconsin! Amongst a host of reasons, I really hope I get to visit and see some Wisconsin hockey games as I spent most of my formative years playing the sport in Canada and the Eastern seaboard. Looking forward to working with you all. 

